DIP SDK Docs (#312)
KILTprotocol/docs: docs/concepts/07_dip/05_dapp_developer.md

Reviewer: I feel in general this section contains a lot of words but it does not really make it any simpler for developers.

I know it's no easy task, but I think we can do better. Also let's make it clear that we are targeting dapp developers here. So no blockchain developers nor regular end users. The dapp developer certainly has a dependency on both the provider chain developers as well as the consumer chain developers.

Author: @ntn-x2 OK, I based this on our conversation and summarised at cut it quite a bit already. It doesn't feel like there's really that many words here to me. I got the impression that the reader would understand the chain developer concepts or why they would be using DIP, but I am happy to add more details. That will mean more words though…

import { * } from '@kiltprotocol/dip-sdk'
```

## Example application

This example application walks through the code you can find in the tests for the DIP SDK.

### 1. Generate a base proof

> Start by generating the base proof for the DIP using the `[generateDipSiblingBaseProof](https://kiltprotocol.github.io/dip-sdk/functions/generateDipSiblingBaseProof.html)` method and passing the desired configuration:

Reviewer: Are you assuming the config object is explained in the docs? If so, perhaps you should mention that and link to the docs for the input config.

Author: @ntn-x2 Yes, I mentioned in a comment that I am yet to do that

Reviewer: Yes, you're right. I still think it makes more sense to build on top of what's already documented in the JSDocs.

```typescript
const baseDipProof = await DipSdk.generateDipSiblingBaseProof(config)
```

:::info What's a base proof?

> A Base proof is a cross chain state proof, representing the parts of a DID stored on the KILT blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A base proof is a cross-chain state proof, revealing the parts of a DID stored on the KILT blockchain.
```

:::

The configuration takes the following parameters:

```typescript

```

### 2. Generate a submittable extrinsic

> The method returns the DID base proof. You have to call a second method, the `[generateDipSubmittableExtrinsic](https://kiltprotocol.github.io/dip-sdk/functions/generateDipSubmittableExtrinsic.html)` method to generate a submittal extrinsic.

Reviewer: Do we call them like this, `submittable extrinsic` elsewhere? Or just extrinsics? Or even just transactions?

```suggestion
The method returns the DID base proof. You have to call a second method, the `[generateDipSubmittableExtrinsic](https://kiltprotocol.github.io/dip-sdk/functions/generateDipSubmittableExtrinsic.html)` method to generate a submittable extrinsic.
```

You need to pass the following parameters:

-   The API of the consumer chain.
-   The base proof.

> -   The extrinsic call to the consumer chain.

Reviewer: What's an extrinsic call? Are we assuming they know?

Author: I agree, though we use this term a lot with little explanation. So I will add a small explainer and in the future as part of a general overhaul of how we present gloassary terms.

-   The DID URI.

```typescript
const dipSubmittable = DipSdk.generateDipSubmittableExtrinsic({
    api: consumerApi,
    baseDipProof,
    call,
    didUri: did.uri,
})
```

> The method returns the different components of the proof:

Reviewer: Do we need to reveal this? Or can we just say that it's the proof object that will go as input into the next function? I think we agreed yesterday these details should not really be relevant. Also, they could check them from the docs, if interested.

Author: @ntn-x2 Yes, but at the moment, the auto generated docs seem to be broken and don't actually provide any useful information (https://kiltprotocol.github.io/dip-sdk/functions/generateDipSubmittableExtrinsic.html). So for now, I will leave this as is, but maybe link to the place in the example code and attempt to fix what's happening with the generated docs.

-   The provider head proof, which is proof of the provider parachain header on the relay chain.
-   The commitment proof, which proves the deep commitment for a specific subject, which is the DID URI.
-   The actual deep proof, which reveals parts of the DID document as specified by key IDs, proof version, whether to include the web rename and the linked account, and the proof version that the user specified.

> Behind the scenes, the method uses the `dispatchAs` method to pass the extrinsic following the consumer's type registry.

Reviewer: Can we link to the `dispatch_as` extrinsic definition as on the chain code?

Author: @ntn-x2 Do you mean link to it in the chain code?

Reviewer: Yes, or at least in the README of the chain repo. What do you think?

You can now sign and submit to the consumer chain.

```typescript
await signAndSubmitTx(consumerApi, dipSubmittable, submitterKeypair)
```

### 3. Linking accounts (optional)

Linked accounts let you specify which accounts you want to prove that you control when you make the cross-chain proof.

> For all the accounts you want to link, use the `associateAccountToChainArgs` method, passing the account and DID to link.

Reviewer: I think this is not the right place for this snippet. We have a section about how to link accounts, and at most users should be redirected there.

Reviewer: Here we should only show how to include some or all of those accounts in the cross-chain proof

Reviewer: Also, we support optionally revealing the web3name of a user, which by default is not revealed. That should also be mentioned.

Author: @ntn-x2 OK, I am a little confused by what you mean by "include some or all"? Are you refering to what this method simulates?

https://github.com/KILTprotocol/dip-sdk/blob/9ad141b3757e076744ab8b2d29bcf10bbeaddd9f/tests/peregrine-dip-consumer-template/develop.test.ts#L198

Reviewer: The integration test you linked, adds ten random accounts to the DID, and then reveals all of them in the DIP proof. In reality, given a DID has N accounts linked, the proof can reveal zero, all, or some of them, as required by the specific tx being dispatched.

```typescript
const linkAccountTxs = await Promise.all(
    linkedAccounts.map(async (acc) => {
        const functionArgs = await Kilt.Did.associateAccountToChainArgs(
            acc.address,
            newFullDidUri,
            async (input) => acc.sign(input, { withType: true })
        )
        return providerApi.tx.didLookup.associateAccount(...functionArgs)
    })
)
```

You can then batch all the linked account transactions and authorize them using the `authorizeTx` method.

```typescript
const signedLinkedAccounts = await Kilt.Did.authorizeTx(
    newFullDidUri,
    providerApi.tx.utility.batchAll(linkAccountTxs),
    signCallback,
    newSubmitterKeypair.address as KiltAddress,
    { txCounter: new BN(4) }
)
```

## Creating extensions for specific proofs

> If you need a specific proof type for your consumer chain, then you can submit a PR to the SDK repository in the `src > dipProof > extensions` folder.

Reviewer: This is targeting dapp developers, right? So it's not "their" chain, but rather the chain they are building the dapp on. And it would have to be the chain developers potentially submitting the PR, as they know exactly what's required.

I know this distinction has been very hard to get it through, and in some cases chain developer == dapp developer, but that's not always the case.

> The example application includes an extension for a time-bound DID signature. This adds a time-limited DID signature.

Reviewer: I feel that repeating time-bound DID signature and time-limited DID signature is redundant. I would rather say:

```suggestion
The example application includes an extension for a time-bound DID signature, i.e., a signature which is valid only until a certain block number.
```

> The extension can take any form you need, but must return [a SCALE encoded](https://docs.substrate.io/reference/scale-codec/) string. You can see how the example extension does this [on GitHub](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/dip-sdk/blob/9ad141b3757e076744ab8b2d29bcf10bbeaddd9f/src/dipProof/extensions/timeBoundDidSignature.ts#L113).

Reviewer: It's not really an example extension, but rather the only extension we include so far. We plan to include more as we see more use cases.

import { * } from '@kiltprotocol/dip-sdk'
```

## Example application

This example application walks through the code you can find in the tests for the DIP SDK.

### 1. Generate a base proof

Start by generating the base proof for the DIP using the `[generateDipSiblingBaseProof](https://kiltprotocol.github.io/dip-sdk/functions/generateDipSiblingBaseProof.html)` method and passing the desired configuration:

```typescript
const baseDipProof = await DipSdk.generateDipSiblingBaseProof(config)
```

:::info What's a base proof?

> A base proof is a cross-chain state proof, revealing the parts of a DID stored on the KILT blockchain.

Reviewer: So, technically a DID is just an identifier, while the DID Document is the set of keys associated with it. I'm not suggesting it must be changed here, but it's probably good for me to share with you this is the framework that we should be thinking in, according to the spec. But I've seen plenty of time DID being used in place of DID Document.

```suggestion
A base proof is a cross-chain state proof, revealing the parts of a DID Document stored on the KILT blockchain.
```

:::

The configuration for the base proof takes the following parameters:

> -   `DipSiblingBaseProofInput`: The input for the base proof. It can be one of the following values:

Reviewer: Maybe we can remove this level of nesting?

Author: @ntn-x2  What do you mean? The bullets? This is the formatting from markdown lint and conforms to our various style rules.

Reviewer: Yes but do we need the top level `DipSiblingBaseProofInput`? That's just the name given to the config object, which is actually whatever is nested under this bullet point. Unless you want to maintain the naming as exposed by the DIP-SDK, in that case it would make sense to leave it as-is.

Author: @ntn-x2 OK, yes, I think this made more sense to me when I started the explanation and made less sense as I dug in, so I'll just remoe it.

>     -   `didUri`: (Required) The DID URI of the DIP subject performing the cross-chain operation.

Reviewer: E.g `did:kilt:421129382109381209831290381203901` whatever a valid DID is.

Reviewer: Alternatively a full example config object might be useful.

>     -   `keyIds`: (Required) An array of verification method IDs of the DID revealed in the cross-chain operation.

Reviewer: E.g., `#key-1`, `#key-2`, etc.

Author: @ntn-x2 Sure. Do you think we need to show that, though? Especially just in the form of "key 1", "key 2", etc

Reviewer: Yeah ok maybe not.

>     -   `proofVersion`: (Required) The version of the DIP proof to generate.

Reviewer: Currently, only proof version `1` is supported.

Author: @ntn-x2 Oh really? OK, that is fairly significant then…

    -   `blockNumber`: The block number of the relay chain to use for the generation of the DIP proof. If not provided, uses the last finalized block.

>     -   `linkedAccounts`: An array of account addresses to link to the DID and reveal in the generated proof.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -   `linkedAccounts`: An array of account addresses linked to the DID and reveal in the generated proof.
```

We could link to https://docs.kilt.io/docs/develop/sdk/cookbook/account_linking/account-link.

>     -   `web3Name`: Whether to reveal the web3name of the DID subject in the generated proof.

Reviewer: Also here we could probably link to https://docs.kilt.io/docs/develop/sdk/cookbook/web3names/web3name-claim.

In the example, the configuration also has extra parameters for the time-bound DID signature extension [mentioned below](#creating-extensions-for-specific-proofs).

> For this example, the configuration also needs details of the provider, which in this example case uses this value populated from an environment variable:

Reviewer: Too many "example"s, I think 😃

> For this example, the configuration also needs details of the provider, which in this example case uses this value populated from an environment variable:

Reviewer: Do we need to use an example value with an environment variable? Can it just be `ws://127.0.0.1` without port number?

Author: In this case, it's walking through the example code, so yes.

```typescript
const providerAddress = `ws://127.0.0.1:${process.env['PROVIDER_ALICE_RPC']}`
```

### 2. Generate a submittable extrinsic

> The method returns the DID base proof. You have to call a second method, the `[generateDipSubmittableExtrinsic](https://kiltprotocol.github.io/dip-sdk/functions/generateDipSubmittableExtrinsic.html)` method to generate a submittable extrinsic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method returns the DID base proof. You have to call a second method, the `[generateDipSubmittableExtrinsic](https://kiltprotocol.github.io/dip-sdk/functions/generateDipSubmittableExtrinsic.html)` method to generate a submittable extrinsic that includes the generated proof.
```

You need to pass the following parameters:

-   The API of the consumer chain.
-   The base proof.

> -   The extrinsic call to the consumer chain.

Reviewer: It's either an extrinsic or a call. It's technically a call in this case.

(Extrinsic involves additional bits of information which are not present at this stage)

-   The DID URI.

:::info Submittable extrinsics

A transaction that originates from an external account and affects the state of the blockchain.
An extrinisc executes actions on the network, such as transferring funds, making governance decisions, using functionality of the parachain, or interacting with smart contracts.

:::

```typescript
const dipSubmittable = DipSdk.generateDipSubmittableExtrinsic({
    api: consumerApi,
    baseDipProof,
    call,
    didUri: did.uri,
})
```

The method returns the different components of the proof, [which you can see in the example code](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/dip-sdk/blob/9ad141b3757e076744ab8b2d29bcf10bbeaddd9f/tests/dip-provider-template-dip-consumer-template/develop.test.ts#L219):

-   The provider head proof, which is proof of the provider parachain header on the relay chain.

> -   The commitment proof, which proves the deep commitment for a specific subject, which is the DID URI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   The commitment proof, which proves the DIP commitment for the subject of the action, which is the DID URI.
```

> -   The actual deep proof, which reveals parts of the DID document as specified by key IDs, proof version, whether to include the web rename and the linked account, and the proof version that the user specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   The DID proof, which reveals parts of the DID document as specified by key IDs, proof version, and whether to include the web3name and any of its linked accounts.
```

I would not use "actual", since a DIP proof is a combination of the three different "sub-proofs". In this case I woudl call it DID proof.

Behind the scenes, the method uses the `dispatchAs` method ([and corresponding chain method](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/kilt-node/blob/4ddb8a0ef6258873458f19d3ee9dcb6d7c24e645/pallets/did/src/lib.rs#L1152)) to pass the extrinsic following the consumer's type registry.
You can now sign and submit to the consumer chain.

```typescript
await signAndSubmitTx(consumerApi, dipSubmittable, submitterKeypair)
```

> ### 3. Linking accounts (optional)

Reviewer: Do we need this section at all? Wouldn't a link to the page be sufficient? I feel it can get easily outdated if we change something in that page and we don't change it here.

Author: I'd like to have it for now, mostly as we lack enough details in docs as it is, so for now a little duplication is good. but when I improve the linked section, I will consolidate.

Linked accounts let you specify which accounts you want to prove that you control when you make the cross-chain proof. As part of the proof provided, you can also include other values, such as the web3name.

For all the accounts you want to link, use the `associateAccountToChainArgs` method, [as detailed in this guide](../../develop/01_sdk/02_cookbook/03_account_linking/01_link.md##linking-an-account-to-a-did).

You can then batch all the linked account transactions and authorize them using the `authorizeTx` method.

```typescript
const signedLinkedAccounts = await Kilt.Did.authorizeTx(
    newFullDidUri,
    providerApi.tx.utility.batchAll(linkAccountTxs),
    signCallback,
    newSubmitterKeypair.address as KiltAddress,
    { txCounter: new BN(4) }
)
```

:::tip

> You can also include accounts you want to link as part of the initial configuration object for the base proof as a list of account addresses.

Reviewer: This is wrong. In the config object, you only specify which of the accounts that are **already** linked you want to reveal in the proof. It does not link the accounts. In the tests I linked the accounts so that they could be revealed in the proof.

:::

## Creating extensions for specific proofs

If you need a specific proof type for a consumer chain, then a chain developer needs to submit a PR to the SDK repository in the `src > dipProof > extensions` folder.

> The extension included with the SDK adds support for a time-bound DID signature, i.e., a signature which is valid only until a certain block number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The extension included with the SDK adds support for a time-bound DID signature, i.e., a signature which is valid only until a certain block number on the consumer chain.
```

> The extension can take any form, but must return [a SCALE encoded](https://docs.substrate.io/reference/scale-codec/) string. There's an example of how the extension does this [on GitHub](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/dip-sdk/blob/9ad141b3757e076744ab8b2d29bcf10bbeaddd9f/src/dipProof/extensions/timeBoundDidSignature.ts#L113).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The extension can take any form, but must return [a SCALE encoded](https://docs.substrate.io/reference/scale-codec/) object. There's an example of how the extension does this [on GitHub](https://github.com/KILTprotocol/dip-sdk/blob/9ad141b3757e076744ab8b2d29bcf10bbeaddd9f/src/dipProof/extensions/timeBoundDidSignature.ts#L113).
```

> To use the extension, the `generateDipSubmittableExtrinsic` method and pass the additional proof elements along with consumer chain specific components.

Reviewer: I feel there's a verb missing here.
